my name is Ted Forbes I'm a photographer
and filmmaker I live in Dallas Texas and
I'm probably most known for the show
that I do in YouTube called the
apartment photography welcome to the art
of photography YouTube channel this is
the premiere place on YouTube for all
things photography related
do you want to take a look at Kenji 5x
and talk a little bit about working with
the a7s2
to come from a very artistic family my
dad is an illustrator my mom was an
interior designer and my sister's a
graphic designer so I grew up around a
very artistic household the only way for
me to rebel against some of that was was
doing music and I started getting into
jazz music in classical music and I
eventually went to the University of
North Texas graduated in 95 or so and
around that time the tech boom was
really taking off and I got an
opportunity to work as a musician for a
company that was designing music
software that exposed me to the
technology side that was just booming in
the 1990s and at the time I really
wanted to do video work mainly because
that passion for film scoring and back
then I mean it was very expensive to get
into video i freelance for several years
doing graphic design and mainly digital
medium doing motion work in around 2008
I had the opportunity position opened up
at the Dallas Museum of Art and the
museum wanted to move into a different
direction with multimedia
and they want to start incorporating
video and stuff that was more episodic
in nature so they could try to develop
an audience doing that but what I really
needed was a project to do that I could
mess up on and make all mistakes so I
started doing the photography show that
I do today the art photography I put
this stuff together put it online and
before I knew it I was getting emails
people would like actually look me up
and or find me on Twitter and they hey I
like your show by law and it was really
interesting so I just kept doing it and
eventually the museum sent me to London
I was speaking at Tate Modern about cell
phone technology and I noticed that you
know
my stats that I had all these people
like hitting my website from the UK so I
thought well what if I do a meet-up and
I remember I was so nervous and was like
what if nobody's there came around the
corner and there's like 13 people there
and they're all like running over to say
hey are you doing it it was like
immediately so cool if you have a
youtube channel or you do anything
online and you look at your analytics
you see numbers it's just data on a
screen and then when I met 13 people
face to face and became friends with
them and was a completely different
thing and I think that was the turning
point when I really got serious about
doing the show
this is a new studio that I've been in
for almost two months now so it's very
recent and stuff that I do covers still
photography video work and then also do
music work and so my studio needs to be
an area that will let me easily kind of
jump back and forth between those things
when I'm sitting at the computer editing
for video work the lights are all
daylight balanced little things you can
do for lighting that are amazing is
first of all make sure every bulb is the
same brand color temperature everything
don't even mix brands and get that
consistent and the other thing I did is
the the china globe I've got two
printers one is just an office printer
the other one's my nicer Epson and then
the camera shop which I will admit was
very casing nice DET inspired has LEDs
and the whole idea is that when you put
a camera down if there's a place to
recharge the battery and I did a video
recently on the Holga which is probably
my favorite cameron I just tend to like
the organic quality of cheap film
cameras I also have some thirty
five-millimeter in icons I have my
hustle Bloods down here that I love for
if you want a really sharp image but
it's nicely because I also have a ton of
digital cameras I love point-and-shoots
they're not the ultimate camera I still
have to use a DSLR like you know this
the right tool for the right job
the music stuff I also use combination
of things either I use you know organic
sounds like the synthesizer sometimes
they found sounds or sampled things the
other thing I will do is I still play
guitar and everything I do is kind of
ambient and loop based and that's just
you know some of my favourite musicians
were you know progressive people like
David torn and Robert Fripp and that
we're experimenting a lot in the 70s and
80s with ambient sound and looped
layering and so the whole idea is with
the Strymon units that I have over there
you have a delay pedal basically it's
like hitting record on a tape deck and
you record one part into it and then
stop it and then whatever it recorded it
just loops over and over and then you
can start over dub on top of that and
what's really cool with the Strymon
stuff is then you can flip things
backwards and you can take it up or down
an octave and you can speed it up and
you can slow it down and so it has all
these options that you can do with
layering sound like that but the last
thing I'll do is you know what it was
very conventional with just basic
sampling an audio track and cutting it
I'm slicing it up putting it with a drum
groove and moving on and so for that I
just use basic MIDI inputs I keep a
folder of all my stuff and I'll use
GarageBand and logic because sometimes
GarageBand is just quick if you have an
idea it's not a great program but it
works so I have folders for logic
documents and grojband documents and I
just keep song ideas in there all the
time
and it's just a loop I just took four
bars of music there and then okay what
can we do with this to start bringing
other elements in so you bring in
another part from the track and I'm
keeping them over the same B and the
flute happens to work with the piano in
here
between photography and then all the
video work that I do it's something that
it's kind of mine now and the mess of
all that is that something that I can
just do for fun a lot of times you know
it's like well you know creative burnout
or whatever the ideas aren't flowing
what you can do to come up with those so
musically one of the things that I'll do
is you know just with what people do the
sampling is just go record a track off a
Spotify with using Paizo or something
and then get it in there and cut it up
and see what you can do with it
we're seeing right now is to create a
business and it's been doing this since
I think the 90s but it's going under a
tremendous change we have so much today
with the internet with what you can do
if you're a musician like what I would
do if I were just getting out of college
right now is you know go get a
SoundCloud account and tweet and
Facebook and share your music with as
many people as possible a lot of people
used to look at that as giving your work
away but that's not how it is anymore it
is free PR but you also have to start
those conversations and I think that's
the disconnect that a lot of people
don't get they put their work up they
put their time into it but then they
don't reach out as a creator you really
have no excuse anymore I mean you can
make something and put it out
hey guys I hope you enjoyed that episode
of creative spaces TV thank you so much
for watching March is the month of
creative spaces TV so you can expect new
episodes every single Tuesday at 8 p.m.
along with the added video day on
Thursday so I will now see you guys
every Tuesday and every Thursday and I'm
excited about it make sure to check out
Ted he is an amazing filmmaker and
photographer and rents an awesome
YouTube channel where he is hosting the
artist series in the next month you were
going to be able to hear from the most
amazing photographers across the entire
world so thank you again for tuning in I
will see you guys on Thursday I'll see
you next Tuesday for another episode of
creative spaces TV and I just want to
say thank you again for all the
positivity for all the love in the past
week and if you haven't yet hit that
subscribe button and I will see you guys
in the next video
you